Get me out of here.
Propulsion systems offline.
Then reboot, damn it!
Warning. Window integrity compromised.
You think?
How long to propulsion?
Calculating.
Window integrity 31%.
Deploying countermeasures.
Hold that order!
Window integrity 19%.
Offensive measures advised.
Wait!
Window integrity 1%.
Now!
Propulsion systems now online.
Full acceleration! Now!
Initiate vertical takeoff!
Flight systems damaged.
Then activate guidance cameras!
Give me the wheel!
Get me Agent Hill.
Communications array damaged.
Well, what's not damaged?
Air conditioning is fully operational.
Traffic ahead.
Give me an alternate route.
Traffic alert on Roosevelt Bridge.
All vehicles stopped.
17th Avenue clear in three blocks,
directly ahead.
Warning. Approaching intersection.
Get me off the grid!
Calculating route to secure location.
♪ Yo listen up here's a story
♪ About a little guy that
lives in a blue world
♪ And all day and all night
and everything he sees
♪ Is just blue like him
inside and outside
♪ Blue is his house
with a blue little window
♪ And a blue Corvette
♪ And everything is blue
for him and himself
♪ And everybody around
♪ 'Cause he ain't got nobody... ♪
Half hour till the ball drops.
- Hey, do you wanna...
- Tony Stark?
- Great speech, man!
- I got you, pal.
I gave a speech? How was it?
- Edifying.
- Unintelligible.
- Really?
- Mmm-hmm.
It's my favourite kind.
A winning combo.
- Where are we going?
- Uh, to town, on each other.
Probably back in your room
because I also want to
see your research.
Okay, you can see my research,
but that's...
I'm not gonna show you my "town."
Mr Stark.
Ho Yinsen.
Ah, I finally met a man called "Ho."
Come here.
I would like to
introduce you to our guest, Dr Wu.
- Oh, this guy. Hey.
- Mr Stark.
You're a heart doctor.
She's going to need
a cardiologist after I...
- Bye.
- Perhaps another time?
Mr Stark!
Oh, wow! Hey, Tony!
Aldrich Killian.
I'm a big fan of your work.
- My work?
- Who isn't? He means me.
Well, of course, but, Ms Hansen,
my organisation's been tracking
your research since year two of MIT.
Yeah, we're full.
Oh, wow, he made it.
He made the cut.
What floor you going to, pal?
Well, now, that is
an appropriate question.
The ground floor, actually,
of a proposal
I'm putting together myself.
It's a privately funded think tank
called Advanced Idea Mechanics.
- Uh...
- She'll take both.
One to throw away and one to not call.
"Advanced Idea Mechanics"
or "AIM," for short. Do you get it?
- I see that, because it's on your T-shirt.
- Aw!
Ladies, follow the mullet. Ladies first.
Thank you, I'll call you.
I'm titillated by the notion
of working with you.
- Yeah?
- I'll ditch these clowns.
I'll see you up
on the roof in five minutes.
Just gonna try
and get my beak wet real quick.
You know what I'm talking about?
I'll see you up there.
Damn betcha.
Come on!
I thought that was just a theory.
Well, it was.
If I'm right, we can access the area
of the brain
- that governs repair...
- Wow.
...and chemically recode it.
That's incredible. Essentially,
you're hacking into the genetic...
...operating system...
- ...of a living organism.
- Exactly.
- Yes.
- Wow.
Is that...
Can you...
- What?
- Can you not touch my plant?
It's not...
She doesn't like it. She prefers...
She's not like the others.
Come on. Let's go in the bedroom.
- Happy...
- Hmm. That's cute...
Leave her ficus alone.
Because...
And, no, seriously, don't.
And you're starting with plants.
- For now, yeah.
- Huh.
I'm calling it EXTREMIS.
- Well, it's...
- Human application.
Exactly, exactly.
- Dendritic revitalisation.
- It's revolutionary.
- Disease prevention...
- Change the world.
...even limb regrowth.
You're the most gifted woman
I've ever met.
Wow.
- In Switzerland.
- Hmm. That's better.
- Aw, you're seeing things.
- This week.
You almost
bought it, didn't you?
This is what I'm talking about,
the glitch.
Have you checked
the telomerase algorithm?
- The what?
- Down!
Stay down! Stay down, boss.
- We're good.
- Stay down.
You... You're...
You're right on me. I made it.
What the hell was that?
- What was that?
- It's a glitch in my work. It's...
She was just talking about it.
Glitches happen.
It's not Y2K.
Hey! Happy New Year!
- Happy New Year.
All right.
I'll see you in the morning. Good night.
- You good?
- Yeah.
- I'll be right outside.
- Okay, cool.
So sweet. That is so nice.
Hi.
I got to go, though.
Okay. Bye.
My aunt, she's kind of an insomniac.
Yeah.
Hey, if you want...
If you want,
you're welcome to use my machine.
Might be cheaper than
the one in the basement.
Yeah? What's it cost?
A cup of coffee?
Thank you, but
I already have a load in downstairs,
and you really don't want
my scrubs in your machine.
I just finished a rotation
in the infectious disease ward, so...
Well, I'll keep my distance.
Hopefully, not too far.
And I think you left your stereo on.
Right. Thank you.
Yeah.
I don't remember giving you a key.
You really think I'd need one?
My wife kicked me out.
I didn't know you were married.
A lot of things you don't know about me.
I know, Nick. That's the problem.
I'm sorry to have to do this,
but I had no place else to crash.
Who else knows about your wife?
Just...
My friends.
Is that what we are?
That's up to you.
Don't trust anyone.
Captain Rogers?
Captain,
I'm Agent 13 of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Special Service.
Kate?
I'm assigned to protect you.
On whose order?
His.
Foxtrot is down, he's unresponsive.
I need EMTs.
Do we have a 20 on the shooter?
Tell him I'm in pursuit.
You're late.
Merriment can sometimes be
a heavier burden than battle.
Then you're doing
one of them incorrectly.
Perhaps.
How fare the stars?
Still shining.
From here, I can see nine realms
and ten trillion souls.
Do you recall what I taught you
of the Convergence?
Yes.
The alignment of the worlds.
It approaches, doesn't it?
The universe hasn't seen this marvel
since before my watch began.
Few can sense it.
Even fewer can see it.
But while its effects can be dangerous,
it is truly beautiful.
I see nothing.
Or, perhaps,
that is not the beauty you seek.
How is she?
She's quite clever, your mortal.
She doesn't know it yet,
but she studies
the Convergence as well.
Even...
What?
I can't see her.
Is he gonna make it?
I don't know.
Tell me about the shooter.
He's fast. Strong.
Had a metal arm.
Ballistics?
Three slugs, no rifling.
Completely untraceable.
Soviet-made.
Yeah.
He's in V-tach.
- Crash cart coming in.
- Nurse, help me with the drape.
- BP's dropping.
- Defibrillator!
I want you to charge him at 100.
Don't do this to me, Nick.
Stand back.
Three, two,
one. Clear.
- Pulse?
- No pulse.
Okay, 200, please.
Stand back!
Three, two, one. Clear!
Get me epinephrine!
Pulse?
Negative.
Don't do this to me, Nick.
Don't do this to me.
What's the time?
1:03, Doctor.
Time of death, 1:03 a.m.
I need to take him.
Natasha.
Natasha!
Why was Fury in your apartment?
I don't know.
Cap, they want you back at S.H.I.E.L.D.
Yeah, give me a second.
They want you now.
Okay.
You're a terrible liar.
S.T.R.I.K.E. team, escort Captain Rogers
back to S.H.I.E.L.D.
immediately for questioning.
I told him.
- Let's go.
- Yeah.
S.T.R.I.K.E., move it out.
Can you regulate?
Yes, I can regulate.
- You sure about that?
- Yes.
It's a decent batch.
- Don't say I never did nothing for you.
- Thank you.
I mean, for understanding.
I'm sorry, buddy.
What are you doing, buddy?
You out by yourself?
A little date night?
Seeing your favourite chick flick,
maybe?
Yeah, a little movie
called The Party's Over,
starring you and your junkie girlfriend.
Here's the ticket.
No kidding. That doesn't belong to you.
Savin!
Help!
Help me!
True story
about fortune cookies.
They look Chinese.
They sound Chinese.
But they're actually
an American invention.
Which is why they're hollow,
full of lies
and leave a bad taste in the mouth.
My disciples just destroyed
another cheap American knockoff.
The Chinese Theatre.
Mr President,
I know this must be getting frustrating.
But this season of terror
is drawing to a dose.
And don't worry,
the big one is coming.
Your graduation.
Captain Rogers.
Neighbor.
Captain.
I'm Alexander Pierce.
Sir, it's an honor.
The honor's mine, Captain.
My father served in the 101 st.
Come on in.
That photo was taken five years
after Nick and I met,
when I was at State Department in Bogota.
E.L.N. rebels took the embassy,
and security got me out,
but the rebels took hostages.
Nick was Deputy Chief
of the S.H.I.E.L.D. station there,
and he comes to me with a plan.
He wants to storm the building
through the sewers.
I said, "No, we'll negotiate."
Turned out, the E.L.N. didn't negotiate,
so they put out a kill order.
They stormed the basement,
and what do they find?
They find it empty.
Nick had ignored my direct order,
and carried out an unauthorized
military operation on foreign soil,
and saved the lives of a dozen
political officers,
including my daughter.
So you gave him a promotion.
I've never had any cause to regret it.
Captain, why was Nick
in your apartment last night?
I don't know.
Did you know it was bugged?
I did, because Nick told me.
Did he tell you he was
the one who bugged it?
I want you to see something.
Who hired you, Batroc?
Is that live?
Yeah, they picked him up last night
in a not-so-safe house in Algiers.
Are you saying he's a suspect?
Assassination isn't Batroc's line.
No, no. It's more complicated than that.
Batroc was hired anonymously
to attack the Lemurian Star.
And he was contacted by email
and paid by wire transfer,
and then the money was run
through 17 fictitious accounts.
The last one going to a holding company
that was registered to a Jacob Veech.
Am I supposed to know who that is?
Not likely. Veech died six years ago.
His last address was 1435 Elmhurst Drive.
When I first met Nick,
his mother lived at 1437.
Are you saying Fury
hired the pirates? Why?
The prevailing theory
was that the hijacking was
a cover for the acquisition
and sale of classified intelligence.
The sale went sour and
that led to Nick's death.
If you really knew Nick Fury,
you'd know that's not true.
Why do you think we're talking?
See, I took a seat on the Council
not because I wanted to,
but because Nick asked me to,
because we were both realists.
We knew that, despite all the diplomacy
and the handshaking and the rhetoric,
to build a really better world
sometimes means having
to tear the old one down.
And that makes enemies.
Those people that call you dirty
because you got the guts
to stick your hands in the mud
and try to build something better.
And the idea that those people
could be happy today
makes me really, really angry.
Captain, you were the last
one to see Nick alive.
I don't think that's an accident.
And I don't think you do, either.
So, I'm gonna ask again.
Why was he there?
He told me not to trust anyone.
I wonder if that included him.
I'm sorry.
Those were his last words.
Excuse me.
Captain,
somebody murdered my friend
and I'm gonna find out why.
Anyone gets in my way,
they're gonna regret it.
Anyone.
Understood.
Operations Control.
Confirmed.
Keep all S.T.R.I.K.E. personnel on site.
- Understood.
- Yes, sir.
- Forensics.
- Confirmed.
Cap.
Rumlow.
Evidence Response found some fibers
on the roof they want us to see.
You want me to get the tac team ready?
No, let's wait and see what it is first.
Right.
What's the status so far?
- Administrations level.
- Confirmed.
Excuse me.
I'm sorry about what happened with Fury.
It's messed up, what happened to him.
Thank you.
Records.
Confirmed.
Before we get started,
does anyone want to get out?
Mobilize S.T.R.I.K.E. units, 25th floor.
Whoa, big guy.
I just want you to know, Cap,
this isn't personal!
It kind of feels personal.
Drop the shield
and put your hands in the air!
Give it up, Rogers! Get that door open!
You have nowhere to go!
Are you kidding me?
He's headed for the garage.
Lock down the bridge.
Stand down, Captain Rogers.
Stand down.
Repeat, stand down.
- Hi.
- Oh!
Do you mind leaving that on?
Sure.
Sunday nights. PBS. Downton Abbey.
That's his show. He thinks it's elegant.
One more thing. Make sure
everyone wears their badges.
He's a stickler for that sort of thing.
Plus, my guys
won't let anyone in without them.
We're awaiting the arrival
of Tony Stark.
We're hoping he'll give us
the reaction...
His reaction
to the latest attack.
Mr Stark, hi there.
Our sources are telling us that all signs
are pointing to another Mandarin attack.
Anything else you can tell us?
Hey, Mr Stark.
When is somebody gonna kill this guy?
I'm just saying.
Is that what you want?
Here's a little holiday greeting
I've been wanting to send
to the Mandarin.
I just didn't know
how to phrase it until now.
My name is Tony Stark
and I'm not afraid of you.
I know you're a coward.
So I've decided
that you just died, pal.
I'm gonna come get the body.
There's no politics here.
It's just good old-fashioned revenge.
There's no Pentagon,
it's just you and me.
And on the off chance you're a man,
here's my home address.
10880 Malibu Point.
90265.
I'll leave the door unlocked.
That's what you wanted, right?
Bill me.
Jane!
Where the hell were you?
Tell me you didn't call the police.
What was I supposed to do?
- Not call the police.
- I was freaking out.
You call the cops, they call the Feds.
Next thing you know,
we have S.H.I.E.L.D. crawling all over
- "Area 51-ing" the place.
- Jane.
We had a stable gravitation anomaly.
We had unimpeded access.
Our only competition
was ten years old!
Jane! You were gone for five hours.
What?
That's weird.
Typical.
Jane.
Sorry. I just needed
to make sure you were real.
It's been a very strange day.
I am. Jane, what...
Where were you?
Heimdall cannot see you.
I was right here where you left me.
I was waiting,
and then I was crying
and then I went out looking for you.
You said you were coming back.
I know. I know,
but the Bifrost was destroyed.
The Nine Realms erupted into chaos.
Wars were raging,
marauders were pillaging.
I had to put an end
to the slaughter.
As excuses go, it's not terrible.
But I saw you on TV.
You were in New York!
Jane, I fought to protect you
from the dangers of my world
but I was wrong.
I was a fool.
But I believe that fate
brought us together.
Jane, I don't know where you were,
or what happened, but I do know this...
What?
I know...
You do?
Do what?
What?
Hey!
Is this you?
We're kind of in the middle
of something here.
I'm pretty sure
we are getting arrested.
Hold that thought.
Look at you,
still all muscly and everything.
How's space?
Space is fine.
Excuse me.
- Are you Jane Foster?
- Yes.
Do you know this man?
He's my intern.
My intern's intern.
This is private property and
you're trespassing, the lot of you.
You'll have to come with me.
Jane.
- Jane.
- Thor?
Are you all right?
What just happened?
Place your hands on your heads.
Step back.
This woman is unwell.
She's dangerous.
So am I.
Requesting armed
response officers to scene.
- Hold on to me.
- What are you doing?
Holy shit.
We have to do that again.
Hi.
Welcome to Asgard.
I've compiled
a Mandarin database for you, sir,
drawn from
S.H.I.E.L.D., FBI and CIA intercepts.
Initiating virtual crime scene
reconstruction.
Okay. What have we got here?
The name is an ancient Chinese war
mantle meaning "advisor to the king."
South American insurgency tactics.
Talks like a Baptist preacher.
There's lots of pageantry going on here.
Lots of theatre. Close.
The heat from the blast was in excess
of 3, 000 degrees Celsius.
Any subjects within 12.5 yards
were vaporised instantly.
No bomb parts found in a three-mile
radius of the Chinese Theatre?
No, sir.
Talk to me, Happy.
When is a bomb not a bomb?
Any military victims?
Not according to public record, sir.
Bring up the thermogenic
signatures again.
Factor in 3,000 degrees.
The Oracle cloud
has completed analysis.
Accessing satellites
and plotting the last 12 months
of thermogenic occurrences now.
Take away everywhere
that there's been a Mandarin attack.
Nope.
That. Are you sure
that's not one of his?
It predates any known Mandarin attack.
The incident was the use of a bomb
to assist a suicide.
Bring her around.
The heat signature
is remarkably similar.
3,000 degree Celsius.
That's two military guys.
Ever been to Tennessee, Jarvis?
Creating a flight plan for Tennessee.
Are we still at ding-dong?
We're supposed to be on total...
...security lockdown.
Come on, I threatened a terrorist.
Who is that?
There's only so much I can do, sir,
when you give the world's press
your home address.
Right there is fine.
You're not the Mandarin.
Are you? Are you?
You don't remember.
Why am I not surprised?
Don't take it personally. I don't
remember what I had for breakfast.
Gluten-free waffles, sir.
That's right.
Okay, look, I need to be alone with you,
someplace not here.
It's urgent.
Normally, I'd go for that sort of thing,
but now I'm in a committed relationship.
It's...
- With her.
- Tony?
- Is somebody there?
- Yeah,
- it's Maya Hansen.
- Ah...
Old botanist pal
that I used to know, barely.
Please don't tell me
there's a 12-year-old kid
waiting in the car that I've never met.
He's 13.
No, I need your help.
But, what for? Why now?
Because I read the papers and frankly,
I don't think you'll last the week.
I'll be fine.
I'm sorry,
with Happy in the hospital,
I didn't know we were expecting guests.
- We weren't.
- And old girlfriends.
- She's not, really.
- No, not really. I...
- it was just one night.
- Yep.
That's how you did it, isn't it?
- It was a great night.
- Yep. Well, you know.
- You saved yourself a world of pain.
- What?
- I'm sure.
- Trust me. We're going out of town.
Okay. We've been through this.
- Nope.
- Yep!
- The man says no.
- Immediately and indefinitely.
- Honey...
- Great idea. Let's go.
I'm sorry, that's a terrible idea.
Please don't touch her bags.
This is how normal people behave.
I can't protect you out there.
Is... Is that normal?
- Sadly, that is very normal.
- Yes, this is normal!
It's a big bunny. Relax about it!
Calm down.
- I got this for you.
- I'm aware of that.
You still haven't even
told me you liked it.
I don't like it.
I asked you three...
You don't like it.
- We are leaving the house.
- Guys?
That's not even up for discussion.
- Can we, um...
- I said no. What?
Do we need to worry about that?
I got you.
I got you first.
Like I said, we can't stay here.
Oh!
Move! I'm right behind you.
Get her. I'm gonna find a way around.
Stop stopping. Get her. Get outside.
Go!
Ch, my God. Tony!
Sir, Ms Potts
is clear of the structure.
Jarvis, where's my flight power?
Working on it, sir. This is a prototype.
That's one.
Sir, the suit is not combat ready.
That's two.
Oh.
Tony!
Sir, take a deep breath.
Flight power restored.
What's that?
Be still.
This is not of Earth. What is it?
We do not know.
But she will not survive the amount
of energy surging within her.
That's a quantum field
generator, isn't it?
It's a soul forge.
Does a soul forge transfer molecular
energy from one place to another?
Yes.
Quantum field generator.
My words are mere noises to you
that you ignore them completely?
She is ill.
She is mortal.
Illness is their defining trait.
I brought her here
because we can help her.
She does not belong here in Asgard
any more than a goat
belongs at a banquet table.
Did he just...
Who do you think you are?
I am Odin, King of Asgard.
Protector of the Nine Realms.
Well, I'm...
I know very well who you are,
Jane Foster.
You told your dad about me?
Something is within her, Father.
Something I have not seen before.
Her world has its healers.
They are called "doctors."
Let them deal with it.
Guards, take her back to Midgard.
No, I would not...
...touch her.
Jane, are you all right?
Yeah.
It's impossible.
The infection... It's defending her.
No.
It's defending itself.
Come with me.
There are relics that pre-date
the universe itself.
What lies within her
appears to be one of them.
The Nine Realms are not eternal.
They had a dawn
as they will have a dusk.
But before that dawn
the dark forces, the Dark Elves,
reigned absolute and unchallenged.
"Born of eternal night
"the Dark Elves come
to steal away the light."
I know these stories.
Mother told them to us as children.
Their leader Malekith made
a weapon out of that darkness
and it was called the Aether.
While the other relics
often appear as stones
the Aether is fluid and everchanging.
It changes matter into dark matter.
It seeks out host bodies,
drawing strength from their life-force.
Malekith sought to use
the Aether's power
to return the universe
to one of darkness.
But, after eternities of bloodshed
my father Bor finally triumphed
ushering in a peace that
lasted thousands of years.
What happened?
He killed them all.
Are you certain?
The Aether was said to have
been destroyed with them,
and yet here it is.
The Dark Elves are dead.
Eyes here.
Whatever your op is, bury it.
This is Level One.
Contact DOT.
All traffic lights in the district go red.
Shut all runways at BWI,
IAD and Reagan.
All security cameras in the city
go through this monitor right here.
Scan all open sources,
phones, computers,
PDAs. Whatever.
If someone tweets about this guy,
I want to know about it.
With all due respect,
if S.H.I.E.L.D. is conducting
a manhunt for Captain America
we deserve to know why.
Because he lied to us.
Captain Rogers has information
regarding the death of Director Fury.
He refused to share it.
As difficult as this is to accept,
Captain America is a fugitive
from S.H.I.E.L.D.
- Where is it?
- Safe.
- Do better.
- Where did you get it?
Why would I tell you?
Fury gave it to you. Why?
- What's on it?
- I don't know.
Stop lying.
I only act like I know
everything, Rogers.
I bet you knew Fury hired
the pirates, didn't you?
Well, it makes sense. The ship was dirty,
Fury needed a way in, so do you.
I'm not gonna ask you again.
I know who killed Fury.
Most of the intelligence community
doesn't believe he exists.
The ones that do call him
the Winter Soldier.
He's credited with over
two dozen assassinations
in the last 50 years.
So he's a ghost story.
Five years ago, I was escorting
a nuclear engineer out of Iran.
Somebody shot out my tires near Odessa.
We lost control,
went straight over a cliff.
I pulled us out.
But the Winter Soldier was there.
I was covering my engineer so he shot him
straight through me.
Soviet slug.
No rifling. Bye-bye, bikinis.
Yeah, I bet you look
terrible in them now.
Going after him is a dead end.
I know, I've tried.
Like you said, he's a ghost story.
Well, let's find out
what the ghost wants.
Sir?
Sir!
All right, kill the alarm. I got it.
That's the emergency alert triggered by
the power dropping below 5%.
Oh...
Oh!
It's snowing, right?
Where are we, upstate?
We are five miles outside of
Rose Hill, Tennessee.
Why?
Jarvis. Not my idea.
What are we doing here?
This is thousands of miles away!
I gotta get Pepper.
I gotta...
I prepared a flight plan.
This was the location.
Who asked you?
- Open the suit.
- I...
I think I may be malfunctioning, sir.
Open it, J.
That's brisk.
Maybe I'll just cosy back up for a...
I actually think
I need to sleep now, sir.
Jarvis.
Jarvis?
Don't leave me, buddy.